Operational-Procedures/Tutorials/tutorial_template.rst, before:

.. This is a template for procedures

.. This is the label that can be used as for cross referencing in the given area
.. _Tutorial_Template-reference-label:

##########################
Title of Example Tutorial
##########################

.. note::
    This is a tutorial template file that is associated with a template directory structure. This note be deleted when the section is properly populated.

Overview
^^^^^^^^

This section should give a top level description of what this tutorial is for and when it should be performed.

Prerequisites
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section should list the prerequisites (e.g. required conditions) to perform the tutorial. If multiple sentences/conditions are required this should be presented in bullet form.

- This is an example bullet (e.g. should have accounts on system XYZ)

    - This is a sub-bullet (e.g. can test by logging into VPN XYZ)


Post-Condition
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section describes the state of the system after performing the tutorial. If multiple sentences/conditions are required this should be presented in bullet form.

- This tutoria leaves the telescope in tracking mode.

    - Add Extra-guidance when required/useful. (e.g. can stop tracking using the following command)



Tutorial Steps
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This paragraph describes for the format of the Tutorial. This is optional as the usefulness depends upon the complexity of the procedure.

In the case of a very straightforward tutorial, a simple numbered list could be used, like as follows:

#. This is Step in a numbered list
#. This is step two.


Separate into Subsections
-------------------------

In the case of more complicated tutorials, more sophisticated methodologies may be appropriate, such as using multiple section headings, then numbered lists under each heading.



Troubleshooting
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Issues relating *only* to this specific tutorial.

Other troubleshooting pages that may be applicable are:

- Itemized list of links to other applicable troubleshooting sections

Commit message:

High-level Changes:  - Move contributing information to rst file and remove from top README  - Apply consistant use of README and remove all rst syntax  - Change to template comment and note to be "may/should" instead of "will"  - Changed _static/README for template directory use Subdirectory Changes (note these are not required elements for subdirectories, and use will be determined by authors):  - Add README and /_static/ from template for consistancy  - Include template comment/note in index.rst where appropriate (as a reminder of underdeveloped content and intent)

Operational-Procedures/Tutorials/tutorial_template.rst, after:

.. This is a template for tutorials. This comment may be deleted when the template is copied to the destination.

.. This is the label that can be used as for cross referencing in the given area
.. _Tutorial_Template-reference-label:

##########################
Title of Example Tutorial
##########################

.. note::
    This is a tutorial template file that is associated with a template directory structure. This note should be deleted when the section is properly populated.

Overview
^^^^^^^^

This section should give a top level description of what this tutorial is for and when it should be performed.

Prerequisites
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section should list the prerequisites (e.g. required conditions) to perform the tutorial. If multiple sentences/conditions are required this should be presented in bullet form.

- This is an example bullet (e.g. should have accounts on system XYZ)

    - This is a sub-bullet (e.g. can test by logging into VPN XYZ)


Post-Condition
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section describes the state of the system after performing the tutorial. If multiple sentences/conditions are required this should be presented in bullet form.

- This tutoria leaves the telescope in tracking mode.

    - Add Extra-guidance when required/useful. (e.g. can stop tracking using the following command)



Tutorial Steps
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This paragraph describes for the format of the Tutorial. This is optional as the usefulness depends upon the complexity of the procedure.

In the case of a very straightforward tutorial, a simple numbered list could be used, like as follows:

#. This is Step in a numbered list
#. This is step two.


Separate into Subsections
-------------------------

In the case of more complicated tutorials, more sophisticated methodologies may be appropriate, such as using multiple section headings, then numbered lists under each heading.



Troubleshooting
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Issues relating *only* to this specific tutorial.

Other troubleshooting pages that may be applicable are:

- Itemized list of links to other applicable troubleshooting sections
