Observing-Interface-Setup/getting-started-argocd.rst, before:

.. Review the README in this procedure's directory on instructions to contribute.
.. Static objects, such as figures, should be stored in the _static directory. Review the _static/README in this procedure's directory on instructions to contribute.
.. Do not remove the comments that describe each section. They are included to provide guidance to contributors.
.. Do not remove other content provided in the templates, such as a section. Instead, comment out the content and include comments to explain the situation. For example:
	- If a section within the template is not needed, comment out the section title and label reference. Include a comment explaining why this is not required.
    - If a file cannot include a title (surrounded by ampersands (#)), comment out the title from the template and include a comment explaining why this is implemented (in addition to applying the ``title`` directive).

.. Include one Primary Author and list of Contributors (comma separated) between the asterisks (*):
.. |author| replace:: *Tiago Ribeiro*
.. If there are no contributors, write "none" between the asterisks. Do not remove the substitution.
.. |contributors| replace:: *Michael Reuter, Patrick Ingraham*

.. This is the label that can be used as for cross referencing this procedure.
.. Recommended format is "Directory Name"-"Title Name"  -- Spaces should be replaced by hyphens.
.. _Observing-Interface-Getting-Started-ArgoCD:
.. Each section should includes a label for cross referencing to a given area.
.. Recommended format for all labels is "Title Name"-"Section Name" -- Spaces should be replaced by hyphens.
.. To reference a label that isn't associated with an reST object such as a title or figure, you must include the link an explicit title using the syntax :ref:`link text <label-name>`.
.. An error will alert you of identical labels during the build process.

###########################
Getting Started With ArgoCD
###########################

.. note::

	This page is still under development and not yet populated.

.. _Observing-Interface-Getting-Started-ArgoCD-Overview:

Overview
========

.. This section should provide a brief, top-level description of the procedure's purpose and utilization. Consider including the expected user and when the procedure will be performed.

TBD

To get a list of the different environments see :ref:`Observing-Interface-Environments`

.. _Observing-Interface-Getting-Started-ArgoCD-Prerequisites:

Prerequisites
=============

.. This section should provide simple overview of prerequisites before executing the procedure; for example, state of equipment, telescope or seeing conditions or notifications prior to execution.
.. It is preferred to include them as a bulleted or enumerated list.
.. Do not include actions in this section. Any action by the user should be included at the beginning of the Procedure section below. For example: Do not include "Notify specified SLACK channel. Confirmation is not required." Instead, include this statement as the first step of the procedure, and include "Notification to specified SLACK channel." in the Prerequisites section.
.. If there is a different procedure that is critical before execution, carefully consider if it should be linked within this section or as part of the Procedure section below (or both).

- Make sure you read and understand the :ref:`environments procedure <Observing-Interface-Environments>`.

  - Once you have identified which environment you want to interact with, you must be able to load the link to the ArgoCD instance to that environment.

.. _Observing-Interface-Getting-Started-ArgoCD-Post-Conditions:

Post-Condition
==============

.. This section should provide a simple overview of conditions or results after executing the procedure; for example, state of equipment or resulting data products.
.. It is preferred to include them as a bulleted or enumerated list.
.. Do not include actions in this section. Any action by the user should be included in the end of the Procedure section below. For example: Do not include "Verify the telescope azimuth is 0 degrees with the appropriate command." Instead, include this statement as the final step of the procedure, and include "Telescope is at 0 degrees." in the Post-condition section.

- Successfully access ArgoCD.

.. _Observing-Interface-Getting-Started-ArgoCD-Procedure-Steps:

Procedure Steps
===============

.. This section should include the procedure. There is no strict formatting or structure required for procedures. It is left to the authors to decide which format and structure is most relevant.
.. In the case of more complicated procedures, more sophisticated methodologies may be appropriate, such as multiple section headings or a list of linked procedures to be performed in the specified order.
.. For highly complicated procedures, consider breaking them into separate procedure. Some options are a high-level procedure with links, separating into smaller procedures or utilizing the reST ``include`` directive <https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/directives.html#include>.

TBD

.. _Observing-Interface-Getting-Started-ArgoCD-Troubleshooting:

Troubleshooting
===============

.. This section should include troubleshooting information. Information in this section should be strictly related to this procedure.

.. If there is no content for this section, remove the indentation on the following line instead of deleting this sub-section.

TBD

.. _Observing-Interface-Getting-Started-ArgoCD-Personnel:

Contact Personnel
=================

This procedure was last modified |today|.

This procedure was written by |author|. The following are contributors: |contributors|.

Commit message:

Improve the operational interface documentation.
* Remove NTS references.
* Fixup TTS information.
* Add summit Slack channel.
* Fix warnings.
* Removing interfering boilerplate.
* Fix Slack support channel.
* Update Argo CD, Chronograf and Nublado pages
* Add Kubernetes page

Observing-Interface-Setup/getting-started-argocd.rst, after:

.. Review the README in this procedure's directory on instructions to contribute.
.. Static objects, such as figures, should be stored in the _static directory. Review the _static/README in this procedure's directory on instructions to contribute.
.. Do not remove the comments that describe each section. They are included to provide guidance to contributors.
.. Do not remove other content provided in the templates, such as a section. Instead, comment out the content and include comments to explain the situation. For example:
	- If a section within the template is not needed, comment out the section title and label reference. Include a comment explaining why this is not required.
    - If a file cannot include a title (surrounded by ampersands (#)), comment out the title from the template and include a comment explaining why this is implemented (in addition to applying the ``title`` directive).

.. Include one Primary Author and list of Contributors (comma separated) between the asterisks (*):
.. |author| replace:: *Tiago Ribeiro*
.. If there are no contributors, write "none" between the asterisks. Do not remove the substitution.
.. |contributors| replace:: *Michael Reuter, Patrick Ingraham*

.. This is the label that can be used as for cross referencing this procedure.
.. Recommended format is "Directory Name"-"Title Name"  -- Spaces should be replaced by hyphens.
.. _Observing-Interface-Getting-Started-ArgoCD:

############################
Getting Started With Argo CD
############################

.. _Observing-Interface-Getting-Started-ArgoCD-Overview:

Overview
========

.. This section should provide a brief, top-level description of the procedure's purpose and utilization. Consider including the expected user and when the procedure will be performed.

This procedure is intended for users of the Rubin Observatory that are interested in interacting with the Observatory Control System using Argo CD.
It contains basic procedures on how to get started with Argo CD.
Argo CD is the system used to deploy and maintain the configuration of many control system components and summit services.

To get a list of the different environments see :ref:`Observing-Interface-Operational-Environments`

.. _Observing-Interface-Getting-Started-ArgoCD-Prerequisites:

Prerequisites
=============

.. This section should provide simple overview of prerequisites before executing the procedure; for example, state of equipment, telescope or seeing conditions or notifications prior to execution.
.. It is preferred to include them as a bulleted or enumerated list.
.. Do not include actions in this section. Any action by the user should be included at the beginning of the Procedure section below. For example: Do not include "Notify specified SLACK channel. Confirmation is not required." Instead, include this statement as the first step of the procedure, and include "Notification to specified SLACK channel." in the Prerequisites section.
.. If there is a different procedure that is critical before execution, carefully consider if it should be linked within this section or as part of the Procedure section below (or both).

- Make sure you read and understand the :ref:`environments procedure <Observing-Interface-Operational-Environments>`.

  - Once you have identified which environment you want to interact with, you must be able to load the link to the Argo  CD instance to that environment.

.. _Observing-Interface-Getting-Started-ArgoCD-Post-Conditions:

Post-Condition
==============

.. This section should provide a simple overview of conditions or results after executing the procedure; for example, state of equipment or resulting data products.
.. It is preferred to include them as a bulleted or enumerated list.
.. Do not include actions in this section. Any action by the user should be included in the end of the Procedure section below. For example: Do not include "Verify the telescope azimuth is 0 degrees with the appropriate command." Instead, include this statement as the final step of the procedure, and include "Telescope is at 0 degrees." in the Post-condition section.

- Successfully access Argo CD.

.. _Observing-Interface-Getting-Started-ArgoCD-Procedure-Steps:

Procedure Steps
===============

.. This section should include the procedure. There is no strict formatting or structure required for procedures. It is left to the authors to decide which format and structure is most relevant.
.. In the case of more complicated procedures, more sophisticated methodologies may be appropriate, such as multiple section headings or a list of linked procedures to be performed in the specified order.
.. For highly complicated procedures, consider breaking them into separate procedure. Some options are a high-level procedure with links, separating into smaller procedures or utilizing the reST ``include`` directive <https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/directives.html#include>.

- Request access to the `IT 1Password <https://lsstit.1password.com/home>`_ system.
- Request access to the *ArgoCD Admin* vault.
- Log into the site specific Argo CD instance using the credentials found in the vault.

.. _Observing-Interface-Getting-Started-ArgoCD-Troubleshooting:

Troubleshooting
===============

.. This section should include troubleshooting information. Information in this section should be strictly related to this procedure.

.. If there is no content for this section, remove the indentation on the following line instead of deleting this sub-section.

If you are having trouble accessing an Argo CD site, please use the site specific Slack channel for further assistance.

.. _Observing-Interface-Getting-Started-ArgoCD-Personnel:

Contact Personnel
=================

This procedure was last modified |today|.

This procedure was written by |author|. The following are contributors: |contributors|.
