Observatory-Control-System/EAS/DIMM/ops.rst, before:

.. |author| replace:: *isotuela*
.. If there are no contributors, write "none" between the asterisks. Do not remove the substitution.
.. |contributors| replace:: *Kevin Fanning, Kris Mortensen*

.. _DIMM-Ops:

#####################################
DIMM Startup, Shutdown and Monitoring
#####################################

The DIMM automatically performs seeing measurements from dusk until dawn. 
Limited support from the user is expected. 

The vendor provided DIMM software will open the dome at dusk, start the system, slew the telescope, focus and offset the mount when needed, run the measurements, 
produce seeing values.  
At dawn, the telescope will park itself, and the dome will close. 
This cycle repeats the following evening, unless :ref:`manually shutdown <Dimm-Shutdown>`, when the sun sets.

The *ameba* program is continuously checking that the environment conditions are stable and clear, based on the data delivered by *tt-meteo*.
In case of adverse weather, *ameba* will close the dome until conditions clear. 

Currently, there is no incoming Cerro Pachón weather information feeding the *tt-meteo* program. 
Thus prior to starting up the DIMM, there are additional steps outlined in the :ref:`Precondition section <Dimm_StartUp-Precondition>`.

.. note::

        This document divides the DIMM start up, shutdown, and monitoring sections into two different types procedures:

        1. **Standard DIMM Procedures**: use well-known *Observatory Control System (OCS)* tools (LOVE, Chronograf, etc.).
        2. **Non-standard DIMM Procedures**: use the *tt-master/tt-meteo* interfaces to issue commands directly to DIMM.

.. _Dimm_StartUp-Precondition: 

Precondition: Weather Data
===========================

Every time the DIMM is restarted, the weather startup values are set so the operations are disabled for safety reasons. 
Under OCS control of the DIMM CSCs, this operation is done automatically, ensuring a start up can happen. However, it is important to ensure that the weather 
conditions are stable and safe before attempting the DIMM startup:

*  Relative humidity is :math:`<80\%`.
*  Outside air temperature must be **greater** than the dewpoint temperature.
*  Wind speeds are :math:`<20\,\text{m/s}`.
*  The weather outside is not completely cloudy.


.. _Dimm_StartUp-Precondition-Nonstandard:

Non-standard Procedure (tt-metteo)
----------------------------------

To allow for operations, mock weather data into the *tt-meteo* weather service must be entered in the following manner:

1.  When connected to the Rubin network (on summit or VPN access), open a terminal and connect to the DIMM Server using your IPA credentials:

    .. code-block:: bash
        
        (base) you@Ios ~ % ssh yourIPAusername@dimm.cp.lsst.org


2.  Switch onto the ``dimm`` user account:

    .. code-block:: bash
        
        [yourIPAusername@dimm ~]$ sudo -iu dimm


3.  Connect via telnet to *tt-meteo*. 

    .. code-block:: bash
        
        dimm@dimm:~$  telnet 127.0.0.1 16301


The prompt within OpenTPL, a plain-text client-server protocol, is ``AUTH OK 0 0``. 
Commands are prepended with a freely chosen command id (unsigned integer).
More on this communication protocol can be found on the :ref:`DIMM general specs <DIMM-DIMM>`.

The following two commands can be written once the prompt appears. 

The first command will set the corrected sky temperature; the second will fix the sky to clear, confirming both observations are possible and safe. 

.. code-block:: bash
    
        1 set sky.temp=-30
    
        2 set sky.status=0

Quit telnet, pressing simultaneously ``Ctrl + ]``, write ``quit`` and click Enter. 

.. figure:: ./_static/tt-meteo.png
    :name: tt-meteo prerequisite

    *tt-meteo* OpenTPL client with the two commands required to manually configure the service.

Now the DIMM is ready to start operations. 

Follow one of the procedures below, to either start the DIMM up in :ref:`automatic mode <Dimm_StartUp-Automatic>` or in :ref:`manual mode <Dimm_StartUp-Manual>`. 

.. _Dimm_StartUp-Automatic: 

Starting Up the DIMM in Automatic Mode
======================================

Make sure you have run the :ref:`Precondition <Dimm_StartUp-Precondition>` regarding the weather data. The automatic 
mode can be started from any state as the steps below override the current mode. In this mode of operations, the DIMM *ameba* 
will automatically select the targets from the star catalog.

.. _Dimm_StartUp-Automatic-Standard:

Standard Procedure (OCS)
------------------------

1.  Start up both the tower DIMM and the portable DIMM by setting their respective CSCs (``DIMM.1`` and ``DIMM.2``) to ``ENABLED`` in `LOVE ASummary State View <https://summit-lsp.lsst.codes/love/uif/view?id=51>`_.

    *  **NOTE:** If their CSCs are already enabled, send to ``DISABLED`` and back to ``ENABLED``.

2.  Verify that both DIMMs are properly enabled by check their `DIMM/Pachon Seeing Dashboard <https://summit-lsp.lsst.codes/chronograf/sources/1/dashboards/120?refresh=Paused&tempVars%5BSalIndex%5D=DIMM%201&lower=now%28%29%20-%2015m>`_.

    *  In the *DIMM Ameba Status* table, you should see **Mode = 1**.

.. _Dimm_StartUp-Automatic-Nonstandard:

Non-standard Procedure (tt-master)
----------------------------------

To start an automatic DIMM observation, connect to *tt-master* where you will set the variable ``ameba.mode`` to 1:

.. code-block:: bash
   
        dimm@dimm:~$  telnet 127.0.0.1 16500


and within the OpenTPL:

.. code-block:: bash
   
        AUTH OK 0 0
        1 set ameba.mode=1
        
It is common to see ``EVENT WARN`` messages regarding the state of ameba. This does not necessarily indicate an issue.

.. admonition:: Status of Ameba

        The status of ameba can be checked with with following command to *tt-master*.
        This can be useful to check if the DIMM will operate tonight, or if there were concerning warning messages when starting ameba.

        .. code-block:: bash

                AUTH OK 00
                1 get ameba.mode

        Which will reply something like the following with 1 when it is on and 0 when it is off.

        .. code-block:: bash

                1 COMMAND OK
                1 DATA INLINE AMEBA.MODE=1
                1 COMMAND COMPLETE

Finish starting the DIMM by verifying the DIMM CSC is enabled and data is appearing in the EFD by using the DIMM dashboard on `Chronograf <https://summit-lsp.lsst.codes/chronograf/sources/1/dashboards/120>`_ (requires summit VPN).

Once this mode is enabled, the DIMM will continue taking data until sunrise, and will run again the following night. 

To manually stop the DIMM, see :ref:`stop the DIMM <Dimm-Shutdown>`

To monitor the status of the DIMM program, see :ref:`monitor the DIMM <Dimm-Monitor>`.

.. _Dimm_StartUp-Manual:

Starting up the DIMM in Manual Mode
====================================

Make sure you have run the :ref:`Precondition <Dimm_StartUp-Precondition>` regarding the weather data. 

The manual mode can be started from any state as the steps below override the current mode. 

In this mode of operations, the user needs to choose the target and run the ``monitor_dimm_2.py`` python script available in the dimm home directory:

.. note:: Keep ``mag`` and ``color`` in 0.0.  Substitute with your target values the parameters in curly braces {}, that is, ``target_name``, ``RA``, ``DEC`` and ``spectral_type``. The format for the sptype is the MK system: the letter followed by a numeric digit (e.g. A8, F0, K5) 

.. code-block:: bash

        dimm@dimm:~$  python3 monitor_dimm_2.py manual --name {target_name} 
        --ra {RA in hours,float} --dec {DEC in degrees, float} --mag 0.0 --color 0.0 --sptype {spectral_type}


Verify the DIMM CSC is enabled and data is appearing in the EFD.

Once this mode is enabled, the DIMM will continue taking data until the target is not observable, but will run again on the following night. 

To manually stop the DIMM, see :ref:`stop the DIMM <Dimm-Shutdown>`

To monitor the status of the DIMM program, see :ref:`monitor the DIMM <Dimm-Monitor>`.

.. _Dimm-Monitor: 

Monitoring the DIMM program
============================

There are two ways to monitor the DIMM hardware, program and outputs. 

1. Run the ``monitor_dimm_2.py`` script in the dimm VM home directory that displays the most relevant information. 

.. code-block:: bash
   
        dimm@dimm:~$  python3 monitor_dimm_2.py monitor


2. Each DIMM service publishes a daily log. The two most relevant ones, *ameba* and *dimm_tool*, along with the *preat* seeing results can be found in:

    - Operational log - ``/mnt/dimm/log/ameba/ameba.log``

    - Camera log - ``/mnt/dimm/log/dimm_tool/dimm.log`` 

    - Seeing and other metrics - ``/mnt/dimm/image/dimm_tool/out/preat.log``

.. _Dimm-Shutdown: 

Shutting down the DIMM 
=======================

At the end of the night, *ameba* program will wrap up the observation, park the telescope and close the dome. 

But there might two situations in which the DIMM needs to be stopped manually:

        - Unsuitable weather conditions 

        - The following night nobody will be monitoring the weather at Cerro Pachon so for safety reasons, the DIMM won't be left operating. 

To gracefully shutdown the DIMM, set ``ameba.mode`` to 0 in the OpenTPL interface of *tt-master*, that is, from the DIMM VM:

.. code-block:: bash
   
        dimm@dimm:~$  telnet 127.0.0.1 16500


and within the OpenTPL:

.. code-block:: bash
   
        AUTH OK 0 0
        1 set ameba.mode=0
        

Confirm in the monitors that the DIMM operations have ceased. 

.. admonition:: Closing DIMM Dome Manually

        Sometimes it may be necessary to manually issue commands to the DIMM dome to close. This can be done by issuing commands to *tt-dome*

        .. code-block:: bash
        
                dimm@dimm:~$  telnet 127.0.0.1 16302

        .. code-block:: bash
        
                AUTH OK 0 0
                1 run sidea=0.0
                2 run sideb=0.0

        If there is an issue, it is common to need to reconnect to *tt-dome* through telnet and issue the commands again.

        You can check the dome position with the following commands to *tt-dome*

        .. code-block:: bash
        
                AUTH OK 0 0
                1 get position

        Positions of both sides range from 0.0 (close) to nearly 1 (open).

This procedure was last modified on |today|.

Commit message:

Part 2 of rough draft to DIMM procedure changes.

Observatory-Control-System/EAS/DIMM/ops.rst, after:

.. |author| replace:: *isotuela*
.. If there are no contributors, write "none" between the asterisks. Do not remove the substitution.
.. |contributors| replace:: *Kevin Fanning, Kris Mortensen*

.. _DIMM-Ops:

#####################################
DIMM Startup, Shutdown and Monitoring
#####################################

The DIMM automatically performs seeing measurements from dusk until dawn. 
Limited support from the user is expected. 

The vendor provided DIMM software will open the dome at dusk, start the system, slew the telescope, focus and offset the mount when needed, run the measurements, 
produce seeing values.  
At dawn, the telescope will park itself, and the dome will close. 
This cycle repeats the following evening, unless :ref:`manually shutdown <Dimm-Shutdown>`, when the sun sets.

The *ameba* program is continuously checking that the environment conditions are stable and clear, based on the data delivered by *tt-meteo*.
In case of adverse weather, *ameba* will close the dome until conditions clear. 

Currently, there is no incoming Cerro Pachón weather information feeding the *tt-meteo* program. 
Thus prior to starting up the DIMM, there are additional steps outlined in the :ref:`Precondition section <Dimm_StartUp-Precondition>`.

.. note::

        This document divides the DIMM start up, shutdown, and monitoring sections into two different types procedures:

        1. **Standard Procedures**: use well-known *Observatory Control System (OCS)* tools (LOVE, Chronograf, etc.).
        2. **Non-standard Procedures**: use the *tt-master* interface to issue commands directly to DIMM.

.. _Dimm_StartUp-Precondition: 

Precondition: Weather Data
===========================

Every time the DIMM is restarted, the weather startup values are set so the operations are disabled for safety reasons. 
Under OCS control of the DIMM CSCs, this operation is done automatically, ensuring a start up can happen. However, it is important to ensure that the weather 
conditions are stable and safe before attempting the DIMM startup:

*  Relative humidity is :math:`<80\%`.
*  Outside air temperature must be **greater** than the dewpoint temperature.
*  Wind speeds are :math:`<20\,\text{m/s}`.
*  The weather outside is not completely cloudy.


.. _Dimm_StartUp-Precondition-Nonstandard:

Non-standard Procedure
----------------------

To allow for operations, mock weather data into the *tt-meteo* weather service must be entered in the following manner:

1.  When connected to the Rubin network (on summit or VPN access), open a terminal and connect to the DIMM Server using your IPA credentials:

    .. code-block:: bash
        
        (base) you@Ios ~ % ssh yourIPAusername@dimm.cp.lsst.org


2.  Switch onto the ``dimm`` user account:

    .. code-block:: bash
        
        [yourIPAusername@dimm ~]$ sudo -iu dimm


3.  Connect via telnet to *tt-meteo*. 

    .. code-block:: bash
        
        dimm@dimm:~$  telnet 127.0.0.1 16301


The prompt within OpenTPL, a plain-text client-server protocol, is ``AUTH OK 0 0``. 
Commands are prepended with a freely chosen command id (unsigned integer).
More on this communication protocol can be found on the :ref:`DIMM general specs <DIMM-DIMM>`.

The following two commands can be written once the prompt appears. 

The first command will set the corrected sky temperature; the second will fix the sky to clear, confirming both observations are possible and safe. 

.. code-block:: bash
    
        1 set sky.temp=-30
    
        2 set sky.status=0

Quit telnet, pressing simultaneously ``Ctrl + ]``, write ``quit`` and click Enter. 

.. figure:: ./_static/tt-meteo.png
    :name: tt-meteo prerequisite

    *tt-meteo* OpenTPL client with the two commands required to manually configure the service.

Now the DIMM is ready to start operations. 

Follow one of the procedures below, to either start the DIMM up in :ref:`automatic mode <Dimm_StartUp-Automatic>` or in :ref:`manual mode <Dimm_StartUp-Manual>`. 

.. _Dimm_StartUp-Automatic: 

Starting Up the DIMM in Automatic Mode
======================================

Make sure you have run the :ref:`Precondition <Dimm_StartUp-Precondition>` regarding the weather data. The automatic 
mode can be started from any state as the steps below override the current mode. In this mode of operations, the DIMM *ameba* 
will automatically select the targets from the star catalog.

.. _Dimm_StartUp-Automatic-Standard:

Standard Procedure
------------------

1.  Start up both the tower DIMM and the portable DIMM by setting their respective CSCs (``DIMM.1`` and ``DIMM.2``) to ``ENABLED`` in `LOVE ASummary State View <https://summit-lsp.lsst.codes/love/uif/view?id=51>`_.

    *  **NOTE:** If their CSCs are already enabled, send to ``DISABLED`` and back to ``ENABLED``.

2.  Verify that both DIMMs are properly enabled by check their `DIMM/Pachon Seeing Dashboard <https://summit-lsp.lsst.codes/chronograf/sources/1/dashboards/120?refresh=Paused&tempVars%5BSalIndex%5D=DIMM%201&lower=now%28%29%20-%2015m>`_.

    *  In the *DIMM Ameba Status* table, you should see **Mode = 1**.

.. _Dimm_StartUp-Automatic-Nonstandard:

Non-standard Procedure
----------------------

To start an automatic DIMM observation, connect to *tt-master* where you will set the variable ``ameba.mode`` to 1:

.. code-block:: bash
   
        dimm@dimm:~$  telnet 127.0.0.1 16500


and within the OpenTPL:

.. code-block:: bash
   
        AUTH OK 0 0
        1 set ameba.mode=1
        
It is common to see ``EVENT WARN`` messages regarding the state of ameba. This does not necessarily indicate an issue.

.. admonition:: Status of Ameba

        The status of ameba can be checked with with following command to *tt-master*.
        This can be useful to check if the DIMM will operate tonight, or if there were concerning warning messages when starting ameba.

        .. code-block:: bash

                AUTH OK 00
                1 get ameba.mode

        Which will reply something like the following with 1 when it is on and 0 when it is off.

        .. code-block:: bash

                1 COMMAND OK
                1 DATA INLINE AMEBA.MODE=1
                1 COMMAND COMPLETE

Finish starting the DIMM by verifying the DIMM CSC is enabled and data is appearing in the EFD by using the DIMM dashboard on `Chronograf <https://summit-lsp.lsst.codes/chronograf/sources/1/dashboards/120>`_ (requires summit VPN).

Once this mode is enabled, the DIMM will continue taking data until sunrise, and will run again the following night. 

To manually stop the DIMM, see :ref:`stop the DIMM <Dimm-Shutdown>`

To monitor the status of the DIMM program, see :ref:`monitor the DIMM <Dimm-Monitor>`.

.. _Dimm_StartUp-Manual:

Starting up the DIMM in Manual Mode
====================================

Make sure you have run the :ref:`Precondition <Dimm_StartUp-Precondition>` regarding the weather data. 

The manual mode can be started from any state as the steps below override the current mode.

.. _Dimm_StartUp-Manual-Nonstandard:

Non-standard Procedure
----------------------

In this mode of operations, the user needs to choose the target and run the ``monitor_dimm_2.py`` python script available in the dimm home directory:

.. note:: Keep ``mag`` and ``color`` in 0.0.  Substitute with your target values the parameters in curly braces {}, that is, ``target_name``, ``RA``, ``DEC`` and ``spectral_type``. The format for the sptype is the MK system: the letter followed by a numeric digit (e.g. A8, F0, K5) 

.. code-block:: bash

        dimm@dimm:~$  python3 monitor_dimm_2.py manual --name {target_name} 
        --ra {RA in hours,float} --dec {DEC in degrees, float} --mag 0.0 --color 0.0 --sptype {spectral_type}


Verify the DIMM CSC is enabled and data is appearing in the EFD.

Once this mode is enabled, the DIMM will continue taking data until the target is not observable, but will run again on the following night. 

To manually stop the DIMM, see :ref:`stop the DIMM <Dimm-Shutdown>`

To monitor the status of the DIMM program, see :ref:`monitor the DIMM <Dimm-Monitor>`.

.. _Dimm-Monitor: 

Monitoring the DIMM program
============================

Standard Procedure
------------------
Monitoring the status and telemetry of both DIMMs can be done through the 
`DIMM/Pachon Seeing Dashboard <https://summit-lsp.lsst.codes/chronograf/sources/1/dashboards/120?refresh=Paused&tempVars%5BSalIndex%5D=DIMM%201&lower=now%28%29%20-%2015m>`_



Non-standard Procedure
----------------------

There are two ways to monitor the DIMM hardware, program and outputs. 

1. Run the ``monitor_dimm_2.py`` script in the dimm VM home directory that displays the most relevant information. 

.. code-block:: bash
   
        dimm@dimm:~$  python3 monitor_dimm_2.py monitor


2. Each DIMM service publishes a daily log. The two most relevant ones, *ameba* and *dimm_tool*, along with the *preat* seeing results can be found in:

    - Operational log - ``/mnt/dimm/log/ameba/ameba.log``

    - Camera log - ``/mnt/dimm/log/dimm_tool/dimm.log`` 

    - Seeing and other metrics - ``/mnt/dimm/image/dimm_tool/out/preat.log``

.. _Dimm-Shutdown: 

Shutting down the DIMM 
=======================

At the end of the night, *ameba* program will wrap up the observation, park the telescope and close the dome. 

But there might two situations in which the DIMM needs to be stopped manually:

        - Unsuitable weather conditions 

        - The following night nobody will be monitoring the weather at Cerro Pachon so for safety reasons, the DIMM won't be left operating. 

To gracefully shutdown the DIMM, set ``ameba.mode`` to 0 in the OpenTPL interface of *tt-master*, that is, from the DIMM VM:

.. code-block:: bash
   
        dimm@dimm:~$  telnet 127.0.0.1 16500


and within the OpenTPL:

.. code-block:: bash
   
        AUTH OK 0 0
        1 set ameba.mode=0
        

Confirm in the monitors that the DIMM operations have ceased. 

.. admonition:: Closing DIMM Dome Manually

        Sometimes it may be necessary to manually issue commands to the DIMM dome to close. This can be done by issuing commands to *tt-dome*

        .. code-block:: bash
        
                dimm@dimm:~$  telnet 127.0.0.1 16302

        .. code-block:: bash
        
                AUTH OK 0 0
                1 run sidea=0.0
                2 run sideb=0.0

        If there is an issue, it is common to need to reconnect to *tt-dome* through telnet and issue the commands again.

        You can check the dome position with the following commands to *tt-dome*

        .. code-block:: bash
        
                AUTH OK 0 0
                1 get position

        Positions of both sides range from 0.0 (close) to nearly 1 (open).

This procedure was last modified on |today|.
