project/Template-Folder/procedure-template.rst, before:

.. This is a template for operational procedures

.. This is the label that can be used as for cross referencing in the given area
.. _Procedure_Template-reference-label:

.. Primary Author
.. add your name between the *'s below
.. |author| replace::  *Replace-with-your-name*
.. If making contribution, add your name between *'s below (first person will have to add the **'s.
.. Names should be separated by commas.
.. |contributors| replace:: *Replace-with-list-of-contributors*

##########################
Title of Example Procedure
##########################

.. note::
    This is a procedure template file that is associated with a template directory structure. This note be deleted when the section is properly populated.

Overview
^^^^^^^^

This section should give a top level description of what this procedure is for and when it should be performed.

.. Any Figures should be stored in the _static subdirectory. See the README in that directory for how to insert a figure

Prerequisites
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section should list the prerequisites (e.g. required conditions) to perform the procedure. If multiple sentences/conditions are required this should be presented in bullet form.

- This is an example bullet (e.g. Telescope azimuth must be at 0 degrees)

    - This is a sub-bullet (e.g. Telescope elevation position is not important)


Post-Condition
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section describes the state of the system after performing the procedure. If multiple sentences/conditions are required this should be presented in bullet form.

- This procedure leaves the telescope with the E-stop activated.

    - Add Extra-guidance when required/useful. (e.g. De-activate the E-stop to re-activate the system, see Procedure XYZ)



Procedure Steps
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This paragraph describes for the format of the procedure. This is optional as the usefulness depends upon the complexity of the procedure.

In the case of a very straightforward procedure, a simple numbered list could be used, like as follows:

#. This is Step in a numbered list
#. This is step two.

There is no strict formatting structure for procedures. It is left to the author to decide which format is most relevant



Separate into Subsections
-------------------------

In the case of more complicated procedures, more sophisticated methodologies may be appropriate, such as using multiple section headings, then numbered lists under each heading.



Troubleshooting
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Issues relating *only* to this specific procedure.

Other troubleshooting pages that may be applicable are:

- Itemized list of links to other applicable troubleshooting sections


Contact Personnel
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This procedure was last modified |today|.

This procedure was written by |author|. The following are contributors: |contributors|.

Commit message:

High-level Changes:  - Move contributing information to rst file and remove from top README  - Apply consistant use of README and remove all rst syntax  - Change to template comment and note to be "may/should" instead of "will"  - Changed _static/README for template directory use Subdirectory Changes (note these are not required elements for subdirectories, and use will be determined by authors):  - Add README and /_static/ from template for consistancy  - Include template comment/note in index.rst where appropriate (as a reminder of underdeveloped content and intent)

project/Template-Folder/procedure-template.rst, after:

.. This is a template for operational procedures. Each procedure will have its own sub-directory. This comment may be deleted when the template is copied to the destination.

.. This is the label that can be used as for cross referencing in the given area
.. _Procedure_Template-reference-label:

.. Primary Author
.. add your name between the *'s below
.. |author| replace::  *Replace-with-your-name*
.. If making contribution, add your name between *'s below (first person will have to add the **'s.
.. Names should be separated by commas.
.. |contributors| replace:: *Replace-with-list-of-contributors*

##########################
Title of Example Procedure
##########################

.. note::
    This is a procedure template file that is associated with a template directory structure. This note should be deleted when the section is properly populated.

Overview
^^^^^^^^

This section should give a top level description of what this procedure is for and when it should be performed.

.. Any Figures should be stored in the _static subdirectory. See the README in that directory for how to insert a figure

Prerequisites
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section should list the prerequisites (e.g. required conditions) to perform the procedure. If multiple sentences/conditions are required this should be presented in bullet form.

- This is an example bullet (e.g. Telescope azimuth must be at 0 degrees)

    - This is a sub-bullet (e.g. Telescope elevation position is not important)


Post-Condition
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section describes the state of the system after performing the procedure. If multiple sentences/conditions are required this should be presented in bullet form.

- This procedure leaves the telescope with the E-stop activated.

    - Add Extra-guidance when required/useful. (e.g. De-activate the E-stop to re-activate the system, see Procedure XYZ)



Procedure Steps
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This paragraph describes for the format of the procedure. This is optional as the usefulness depends upon the complexity of the procedure.

In the case of a very straightforward procedure, a simple numbered list could be used, like as follows:

#. This is Step in a numbered list
#. This is step two.

There is no strict formatting structure for procedures. It is left to the author to decide which format is most relevant



Separate into Subsections
-------------------------

In the case of more complicated procedures, more sophisticated methodologies may be appropriate, such as using multiple section headings, then numbered lists under each heading.



Troubleshooting
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Issues relating *only* to this specific procedure.

Other troubleshooting pages that may be applicable are:

- Itemized list of links to other applicable troubleshooting sections


Contact Personnel
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This procedure was last modified |today|.

This procedure was written by |author|. The following are contributors: |contributors|.
