Operational-Procedures/Auxiliary-Telescope/LATISS-Master-Calibrations-Procedure/latiss-master-calibrations-procedure.rst, before:

.. |author| replace:: *Andrés A. Plazas Malagón*
.. If there are no contributors, write "none" between the asterisks. Do not remove the substitution.
.. |contributors| replace:: *none*

.. _Latiss-Master-Calibrations-Procedure:

###############################################
Latiss Master Calibrations Generation Procedure
###############################################

.. _Latiss-Master-Calibrations-Procedure-Overview:

Overview
========

This procedure describes how to execute the SAL Script to produce combined/master calibrations for LATISS on the ScriptQueue from the LSST Operations and Visualization Enviroment (LOVE) at the Summit :ref:`operational environment <Observing-Interface-Operational-Environments>`. 

The script will have the option to: 

- command LATISS to take a number of calibrations frames:
   - biases
   - darks
   - flats
- call the corresponding Rubin Science Pipelines calibration generation pipetask to produce biases, darks, flats, defects and Photon Transfer Curves (PTCs) via the OCS-Controlled Pipeline System (OCPS),
- verify the images taken using as reference the calibration generated in the previous step (see the package `cp_verify`_, and the technical notes `DMTN-101`_ and `DMTN-222`_), or using pre-existing calibrations (via the ``generate_calibrations`` boolean parameter in the configuration file), and
- certify the resulting calibration with a given range of validity dates.

For at least one type of test (as defined in `DMTN-101`_), if the majority of tests fail in the majority of detectors and the majority of exposures, then the script will terminate by raising a ``RuntimeError`` after calculating the verification statistics, and the calibration will not be certified. The configuration parameters ``number_verification_tests_threshold_bias``, ``number_verification_tests_threshold_dark``, and ``number_verification_tests_threshold_flat`` will be used to define thresholds to decide whether the calibration will pass verification and should be certified or not. Currently, verification is only implemented for ``BIAS``, ``DARK``, and ``FLAT`` calibration types. If the configuration parameters ``do_defects`` and ``do_ptc`` are set to ``True``, verification will be skipped for the ``DEFECTS`` and ``PTC`` calibrations and they will be automatically certified.

The script currently has the option (via the ``script_mode`` parameter in the configuration options) to:

- take only biases, 
- take biases and darks, and 
- take biases, darks, and flats. 
  
These options are constrained by the fact that the generation or construction of one calibration depends on the existence of the previous one (i.e., to generate a combined dark, a combined bias is necessary, and to generate a flat, a combined dark and a combined bias are necessary). Calibration generation from the images taken can be skipped by setting ``generate_calibrations``. This will speed up the execution time of the script, and subsequent tasks (for example, verification tasks or the PTC construction task) will look for necessary calibrations in their input collections (whose default is the standard calibrations collection: ``LATISS/calib``).

If desired, defects can be constructed from darks and flats, and a PTC per detector per amplifier constructed from the flats. Note that the PTC assumes that a sequence of flat pairs has been taken, each pair taken at the same exposure time. In both cases, ``script_mode`` must be set to ``BIAS_DARK_FLAT``.


For more information about calibrations production (including verification and certification), please consult the `Constructing Calibrations documentation`_.

.. _cp_verify: https://github.com/lsst/cp_verify
.. _DMTN-101: https://dmtn-101.lsst.io/
.. _DMTN-222: https://dmtn-222.lsst.io/
.. _Constructing Calibrations documentation: https://pipelines.lsst.io/v/daily/modules/lsst.cp.pipe/constructing-calibrations.html

.. _Latiss-Master-Calibrations-Procedure-Prerequisites:


Prerequisites
=============

- You should be logged into the LSST Operations and Visualization Enviroment (LOVE) at the Summit :ref:`operational environment <Observing-Interface-Operational-Environments>`.
- The script assumes (and checks) that the ``LATISS`` and ``OCPS`` components are all ``ENABLED``, and that the latter has been ``ENABLED`` with the configuration of ``LATISS``.

The instrument and the ``OCPS`` can be enabled with the following procedures:
    - :ref:`Enable LATISS Procedure <Enable-LATISS-Procedure>`
    - :ref:`Enable OCPS Auxiliary Telescope Procedure <Enable-OCPS-Auxiliary-Telescope-Procedure>`

If you plan to take flat fields as well, make sure the Auxiliary Telescope is prepared to do so:
    - :ref:`Prepare ATCS For Flat Fields Procedure <Prepare-ATCS-For-Flat-Fields-Procedure>`

.. _Latiss-Master-Calibrations-Procedure-Post-Conditions:

Post-Condition
==============

- A (daily) combined calibration image per detector will be certified in a `butler`_ ``CALIBRATION`` `collection`_.

.. _butler: https://pipelines.lsst.io/v/daily/modules/lsst.daf.butler/index.html
.. _collection: https://pipelines.lsst.io/v/daily/modules/lsst.daf.butler/organizing.html

.. _Latiss-Master-Calibrations-Procedure-Steps:

Procedure Steps
===============

Once you are logged into LOVE, click on the ``ATQueue`` panel, as circled on the right side of the figure below (for reference, ``MTQueue`` to launch ``LATISS`` scripts is circled on the left):

.. figure:: ./_static/love-mtqueue-atqueue-panel.png
    :name: ATQueue-love

    Screenshot of LOVE interface with the "ATQueue" pannel.


Load the Script
---------------

After clicking on the ``ATQueue`` panel, search for the script ``maintel/make_latiss_calibrations.py`` under ``AVAILABLE SCRIPTS`` on the left, as shown in the figure below:

.. figure:: ./_static/love-available-scripts.png
    :name: latiss-available-scripts-love

    Screenshot of LOVE interface with the "AVAILABLE SCRIPTS" list.
      
Load the script by clicking on the button in front of the name of the script that has a triangle.

Enter configuration parameters
------------------------------

After loading the script, a window that contains two sections, ``SCHEMA`` (top) and ``CONFIG`` (bottom), will appear. The former will show the available configuration options (and the default values of some of them) that should be entered in the latter. The configuration options are as follows:

- ``script_mode``: Currently, the script can be run  in three modes, in which  it  will  produce only biases (``BIAS``), biases and darks (``BIAS_DARK``), or biases, darks,
  and flats (``BIAS_DARK_FLAT``). Default: ``BIAS_DARK_FLAT``
- ``n_bias``: number of bias frames to be taken. Default: ``20`` 
- ``n_dark``: number of dark frames to be taken. Default: ``20``
- ``exp_times_dark``: The exposure time of each dark image (sec). If a single value, then the same exposure time is used for each exposure. Default: ``5``
- ``n_flat``: number of flat frames to be taken. Default: ``20``
- ``exp_times_flat``: The exposure time of each flat image (sec). If a single value, then the same exposure time is used for each exposure. If ``do_ptc`` is ``True``, the exposure times should form an adecuate secuence of flat pairs, each pair with the same exposure time. If ``do_gain_from_flat_pairs`` is ``True``, at least two flats with the same exposure time should be taken.  Default: ``5``
- ``detectors``: Detector IDs that will be pased to the pipeline tasks, given as an array of integers, e.g., ``[0,1,2,3]``. The default value is an empty array, which will translate in using all the detectors (a single detector for LATISS). Default: ``[]``
- ``do_verify``: Should the combined calibrations be verified? (c.f., ``cp_verify``). Default:  ``True``
- ``generate_calibrations``: Should the combined calibrations be generated from the images taken and used as references for image verification? ("internal verification"). If ``False`` and and ``do_verify`` is ``True``, pre-existing calibrations will be used as reference for verification ("external verification"), and they should be provided in the input collections for the verification pipetasks. Default: ``False``
- ``config_options_bias``: Options to be passed to the command-line bias pipetask. They will overwrite the values in ``cpBias.yaml``. Default: ``-c isr:doDefect=False``
- ``config_options_dark``: Options to be passed to the command-line dark pipetask. They will overwrite the values in ``cpDark.yaml``. Default: ``-c isr:doDefect=False``
- ``config_options_flat``: Options to be passed to the command-line flat pipetask. They will overwrite the values in ``cpFlat.yaml``. Default: ``-c isr:doDefect=False``
- ``do_defects``: Should defects be built using darks and flats?. ``script_mode`` must be ``BIAS_DARK_FLAT``. Default: ``False``
- ``config_options_defects``: Options to be passed to the command-line defects pipetask. They will overwrite the values in ``findDefects.yaml``. Default: ``-c isr:doDefect=False``
- ``do_ptc``: Should a Photon Transfer Curve be constructed from the flats taken? ``script_mode`` must be ``BIAS_DARK_FLAT``. Default: ``False``
- ``config_options_ptc``: Options to be passed to the command-line PTC pipetask. They will overwrite the values in ``cpPtc.yaml``. Default: ``-c isr:doCrosstalk=False``
- ``do_gain_from_flat_pairs``: Should the gain be estimated from each pair of flats taken at the same exposure time? Runs the ``cpPtc.yaml#generateGainFromFlatPair`` pipeline. Since this pipeline is a subset of the PTC pipeline, you can use use the ``config_options_ptc`` parameter to pass options to the ``ISR`` (Instrument Signature Removal) and ``cpExtract`` tasks which form this pipeline. Default: ``False``
- ``input_collections_bias``: List of additional (the ``OCPS`` already adds ``LATISS/raw/all`` as a default) comma-separated input collections for the bias pipetask. The pipetask is called via the ``OCPS`` after enabling it with the ``LATISS`` configuration. Default: ``LATISS/calib``.
- ``input_collections_verify_bias``: Additional comma-separated input collections to pass to the verify (bias) pipetask. Default: ``LATISS/calib``.
- ``input_collections_dark``: Additional comma-separarted input collections to pass to the dark pipetask. Default: ``LATISS/calib``
- ``input_collections_verify_dark``: Additional comma-separated input collections to pass to the verify (dark) pipetask. Default: ``LATISS/calib``
- ``input_collections_flat``: Additional comma-separated input collections to pass to the flat pipetask. Default: ``LATISS/calib``
- ``input_collections_verify_flat``: Additional comma-separated input collections to pass to the verify (flat) pipetask. Default: ``LATISS/calib``
- ``input_collections_defects``: Additional comma-separated input collections to pass to the defects pipetask. Default: ``LATISS/calib``
- ``input_collections_ptc``: Additional comma-separated input collections to pass to the Photon Transfer Curve pipetask. Default: ``LATISS/calib``
- ``calib_collection``: ``CALIBRATION`` collection where the calibrations will be certified into, for example, ``LATISS/calib/u/plazas/YYYYMMMDD.test`` or ``LATISS/calib/daily``. Default: ``LATISS/calib/daily``.
- ``repo``: Butler repository. Default: ``/repo/LATISS``.
- ``n_processes``: Number of processes that the pipetasks will use. Default: ``8``
- ``certify_calib_begin_date``: The beginning date for the validity range of the certified calibration. For example, ``2021-07-15``. Default: ``1950-01-01``
- ``certify_calib_end_date``: The end date for the validity range of the certified calibration. For example, ``2021-07-16``. Default: ``2050-01-01``.
- ``oods_timeout``: Timeout value, in seconds, for the Observatory Operations Data Service (``OODS``). Default: ``120``

An example set of configuration parameters is as follows:

.. code-block:: text

    n_bias: 6
    n_dark: 6
    exp_times_dark: [5, 5, 5, 10, 15, 20]
    n_flat: 14
    exp_times_flat: [0.1, 0.1, 0.35, 0.35, 0.6, 0.6, 0.8, 0.8, 1.0, 1.0, 1.35, 1.35, 1.6, 1.6]
    calib_collection: "LATISS/calib/u/plazas/daily.2021SEP13.test1"
    do_verify: True
    input_collections_verify_bias: "u/czw/DM-28920/calib.20210720,LATISS/calib"
    input_collections_verify_dark: "u/czw/DM-28920/calib.20210720,LATISS/calib"
    input_collections_verify_flat: "u/czw/DM-28920/calib.20210720,LATISS/calib"
    certify_calib_begin_date: "2021-07-15"
    certify_calib_end_date: "2021-07-17"
    script_mode: BIAS_DARK_FLAT
    do_defects: True
    do_ptc: True

Notes
^^^^^

- The ``detectors`` parameters was omitted, therefore, by default, the single LATISS detector will be passed to the LSST Science Pipelines pipetasks. 
- The ``generate_calibrations`` parameters was omitted, and therefore combined calibrations will not be generated from the individual images taken (biases, darks, and flats since ``script_mode`` is ``BIAS_DARK_FLAT``), as its default value is ``False``. Pipetasks that require combined calibrations to run will search for them in their input collections. For example, since ``do_verify`` is ``True``, the bias, dark, and flat verification tasks will look for combined reference calibrations in their input collections, given by the ``input_collections_verify_bias``, ``input_collections_verify_dark``, and ``input_collections_verify_flat`` parameters. Since the collection ``u/czw/DM-28920/calib.20210720`` is located before the standard collection ``LATISS/calib`` in these parameters, the verification tasks will look there first. On the other hand, since ``do_ptc`` is ``True`` and ``input_collections_ptc`` is omitted, the PTC task will look for combined calibrations (e.g., bias, dark) in the standard calibration collection ``LATISS/calib``, which is the default for this parameter.
-  Sometimes running the PTC can take a long time. In order to obtain a quick estimation for the gain (and monitor, for example, its stability with time), the parameter ``do_gain_from_flat_pairs`` can be set to ``True``. In that case, only one pair of flats is required, so the parameter ``exp_times_flat`` could be set to, e.g., ``[1.2, 1.2]``. However, the task will estimate a gain for every flat pair that has been taken (``LOVE`` will report the values per exposure pair per detector per amplifier). For example, if ``exp_times_flat`` is  ``[0.1, 0.1, 0.35, 0.35, 0.6, 0.6, 1, 1.5, 1.7, 2.1, 2.3]``, gains will be estimated from the first three flat pairs.
- See `DMTN-222`_ for a discussion on calibration generation, verification, acceptance, and certfication, including suggested naming conventions for parameters such as ``calib_collection``.

.. _DMTN-222: https://dmtn-222.lsst.io/

Launch the script
-----------------

When the configuration options have been entered and the script is ready to be launched, click on the ``ADD`` button in the lower right of the screen (refer to image above).

Accessing the calibrations
--------------------------

The certified combined calibrations will be available via the collection specified by the **calib_collection** parameter. They could be retrieved from a notebook for manipulation and visualization:

.. code-block:: python
    
    import lsst.daf.butler as dB

    butler = dB.Butler("/repo/LATISS", collections=["LATISS/calib/daily.2021SEP13.test1"])
    detector = (0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8)
    exposure = [bias1ID, bias2ID] # e.g., [2021071500001, 2021071500002]
    
    # For detector "0":
    bias = butler.get('bias', detector=detector[0], exposure=exposure[0], instrument='LATISS')
    dark = butler.get('dark', detector=detector[0], exposure=exposure[0], instrument='LATISS')
    flat = butler.get('flat', detector=detector[0], exposure=exposure[0], instrument='LATISS')
    defects = butler.get('defects', detector=detector[0], exposure=exposure[0], instrument='LATISS')
    ptc = butler.get('ptc', detector=detector[0], exposure=exposure[0], instrument='LATISS')


If ``do_gain_from_flat_pair`` is ``True``, the estimated gains (as well as the measured empirical readout noise from the overscan during Instrument Signature Removal) can be found by requesting the ``cpCovariances`` data structure. In this case, the exposure ID should be one of the two flats used to estimate the gain:

.. code-block:: python

    cpCovs = butler.get('cpCovariances', detector=detector[0], exposure=flat1ID, instrument='LATISS')
    gain_values = cpCov.gain
    noise_values = cpCov.noise


In addition, the statistics produced by the verification step can be analized by running the Jupyter notebooks in the ``examples`` folder in ``cp_verify``.

Troubleshooting
===============

    After checking the configuration options and the ``LOVE`` error messages, the file ``/scratch/uws/${jobId}/outs/ocps.log`` will contain additional technical information on which pipetask failed, if any. ``{jobId}`` is returned by the OCPS and can be retrieved from the ``LOVE`` output messages.


.. _Latiss-Master-Calibrations-Procedure-Conditions-Contact-Personnel:

Contact Personnel
=================

This procedure was last modified on |today|.

This procedure was written by |author|.
The following are contributors: |contributors|.

Commit message:

Add more example code
Fix typo

Operational-Procedures/Auxiliary-Telescope/LATISS-Master-Calibrations-Procedure/latiss-master-calibrations-procedure.rst, after:

.. |author| replace:: *Andrés A. Plazas Malagón*
.. If there are no contributors, write "none" between the asterisks. Do not remove the substitution.
.. |contributors| replace:: *none*

.. _Latiss-Master-Calibrations-Procedure:

###############################################
Latiss Master Calibrations Generation Procedure
###############################################

.. _Latiss-Master-Calibrations-Procedure-Overview:

Overview
========

This procedure describes how to execute the SAL Script to produce combined/master calibrations for LATISS on the ScriptQueue from the LSST Operations and Visualization Enviroment (LOVE) at the Summit :ref:`operational environment <Observing-Interface-Operational-Environments>`. 

The script will have the option to: 

- command LATISS to take a number of calibrations frames:
   - biases
   - darks
   - flats
- call the corresponding Rubin Science Pipelines calibration generation pipetask to produce biases, darks, flats, defects and Photon Transfer Curves (PTCs) via the OCS-Controlled Pipeline System (OCPS),
- verify the images taken using as reference the calibration generated in the previous step (see the package `cp_verify`_, and the technical notes `DMTN-101`_ and `DMTN-222`_), or using pre-existing calibrations (via the ``generate_calibrations`` boolean parameter in the configuration file), and
- certify the resulting calibration with a given range of validity dates.

For at least one type of test (as defined in `DMTN-101`_), if the majority of tests fail in the majority of detectors and the majority of exposures, then the script will terminate by raising a ``RuntimeError`` after calculating the verification statistics, and the calibration will not be certified. The configuration parameters ``number_verification_tests_threshold_bias``, ``number_verification_tests_threshold_dark``, and ``number_verification_tests_threshold_flat`` will be used to define thresholds to decide whether the calibration will pass verification and should be certified or not. Currently, verification is only implemented for ``BIAS``, ``DARK``, and ``FLAT`` calibration types. If the configuration parameters ``do_defects`` and ``do_ptc`` are set to ``True``, verification will be skipped for the ``DEFECTS`` and ``PTC`` calibrations and they will be automatically certified.

The script currently has the option (via the ``script_mode`` parameter in the configuration options) to:

- take only biases, 
- take biases and darks, and 
- take biases, darks, and flats. 
  
These options are constrained by the fact that the generation or construction of one calibration depends on the existence of the previous one (i.e., to generate a combined dark, a combined bias is necessary, and to generate a flat, a combined dark and a combined bias are necessary). Calibration generation from the images taken can be skipped by setting ``generate_calibrations``. This will speed up the execution time of the script, and subsequent tasks (for example, verification tasks or the PTC construction task) will look for necessary calibrations in their input collections (whose default is the standard calibrations collection: ``LATISS/calib``).

If desired, defects can be constructed from darks and flats, and a PTC per detector per amplifier constructed from the flats. Note that the PTC assumes that a sequence of flat pairs has been taken, each pair taken at the same exposure time. In both cases, ``script_mode`` must be set to ``BIAS_DARK_FLAT``.


For more information about calibrations production (including verification and certification), please consult the `Constructing Calibrations documentation`_.

.. _cp_verify: https://github.com/lsst/cp_verify
.. _DMTN-101: https://dmtn-101.lsst.io/
.. _DMTN-222: https://dmtn-222.lsst.io/
.. _Constructing Calibrations documentation: https://pipelines.lsst.io/v/daily/modules/lsst.cp.pipe/constructing-calibrations.html

.. _Latiss-Master-Calibrations-Procedure-Prerequisites:


Prerequisites
=============

- You should be logged into the LSST Operations and Visualization Enviroment (LOVE) at the Summit :ref:`operational environment <Observing-Interface-Operational-Environments>`.
- The script assumes (and checks) that the ``LATISS`` and ``OCPS`` components are all ``ENABLED``, and that the latter has been ``ENABLED`` with the configuration of ``LATISS``.

The instrument and the ``OCPS`` can be enabled with the following procedures:
    - :ref:`Enable LATISS Procedure <Enable-LATISS-Procedure>`
    - :ref:`Enable OCPS Auxiliary Telescope Procedure <Enable-OCPS-Auxiliary-Telescope-Procedure>`

If you plan to take flat fields as well, make sure the Auxiliary Telescope is prepared to do so:
    - :ref:`Prepare ATCS For Flat Fields Procedure <Prepare-ATCS-For-Flat-Fields-Procedure>`

.. _Latiss-Master-Calibrations-Procedure-Post-Conditions:

Post-Condition
==============

- A (daily) combined calibration image per detector will be certified in a `butler`_ ``CALIBRATION`` `collection`_.

.. _butler: https://pipelines.lsst.io/v/daily/modules/lsst.daf.butler/index.html
.. _collection: https://pipelines.lsst.io/v/daily/modules/lsst.daf.butler/organizing.html

.. _Latiss-Master-Calibrations-Procedure-Steps:

Procedure Steps
===============

Once you are logged into LOVE, click on the ``ATQueue`` panel, as circled on the right side of the figure below (for reference, ``MTQueue`` to launch ``LATISS`` scripts is circled on the left):

.. figure:: ./_static/love-mtqueue-atqueue-panel.png
    :name: ATQueue-love

    Screenshot of LOVE interface with the "ATQueue" pannel.


Load the Script
---------------

After clicking on the ``ATQueue`` panel, search for the script ``maintel/make_latiss_calibrations.py`` under ``AVAILABLE SCRIPTS`` on the left, as shown in the figure below:

.. figure:: ./_static/love-available-scripts.png
    :name: latiss-available-scripts-love

    Screenshot of LOVE interface with the "AVAILABLE SCRIPTS" list.
      
Load the script by clicking on the button in front of the name of the script that has a triangle.

Enter configuration parameters
------------------------------

After loading the script, a window that contains two sections, ``SCHEMA`` (top) and ``CONFIG`` (bottom), will appear. The former will show the available configuration options (and the default values of some of them) that should be entered in the latter. The configuration options are as follows:

- ``script_mode``: Currently, the script can be run  in three modes, in which  it  will  produce only biases (``BIAS``), biases and darks (``BIAS_DARK``), or biases, darks,
  and flats (``BIAS_DARK_FLAT``). Default: ``BIAS_DARK_FLAT``
- ``n_bias``: number of bias frames to be taken. Default: ``20`` 
- ``n_dark``: number of dark frames to be taken. Default: ``20``
- ``exp_times_dark``: The exposure time of each dark image (sec). If a single value, then the same exposure time is used for each exposure. Default: ``5``
- ``n_flat``: number of flat frames to be taken. Default: ``20``
- ``exp_times_flat``: The exposure time of each flat image (sec). If a single value, then the same exposure time is used for each exposure. If ``do_ptc`` is ``True``, the exposure times should form an adecuate secuence of flat pairs, each pair with the same exposure time. If ``do_gain_from_flat_pairs`` is ``True``, at least two flats with the same exposure time should be taken.  Default: ``5``
- ``detectors``: Detector IDs that will be pased to the pipeline tasks, given as an array of integers, e.g., ``[0,1,2,3]``. The default value is an empty array, which will translate in using all the detectors (a single detector for LATISS). Default: ``[]``
- ``do_verify``: Should the combined calibrations be verified? (c.f., ``cp_verify``). Default:  ``True``
- ``generate_calibrations``: Should the combined calibrations be generated from the images taken and used as references for image verification? ("internal verification"). If ``False`` and and ``do_verify`` is ``True``, pre-existing calibrations will be used as reference for verification ("external verification"), and they should be provided in the input collections for the verification pipetasks. Default: ``False``
- ``config_options_bias``: Options to be passed to the command-line bias pipetask. They will overwrite the values in ``cpBias.yaml``. Default: ``-c isr:doDefect=False``
- ``config_options_dark``: Options to be passed to the command-line dark pipetask. They will overwrite the values in ``cpDark.yaml``. Default: ``-c isr:doDefect=False``
- ``config_options_flat``: Options to be passed to the command-line flat pipetask. They will overwrite the values in ``cpFlat.yaml``. Default: ``-c isr:doDefect=False``
- ``do_defects``: Should defects be built using darks and flats?. ``script_mode`` must be ``BIAS_DARK_FLAT``. Default: ``False``
- ``config_options_defects``: Options to be passed to the command-line defects pipetask. They will overwrite the values in ``findDefects.yaml``. Default: ``-c isr:doDefect=False``
- ``do_ptc``: Should a Photon Transfer Curve be constructed from the flats taken? ``script_mode`` must be ``BIAS_DARK_FLAT``. Default: ``False``
- ``config_options_ptc``: Options to be passed to the command-line PTC pipetask. They will overwrite the values in ``cpPtc.yaml``. Default: ``-c isr:doCrosstalk=False``
- ``do_gain_from_flat_pairs``: Should the gain be estimated from each pair of flats taken at the same exposure time? Runs the ``cpPtc.yaml#generateGainFromFlatPair`` pipeline. Since this pipeline is a subset of the PTC pipeline, you can use use the ``config_options_ptc`` parameter to pass options to the ``ISR`` (Instrument Signature Removal) and ``cpExtract`` tasks which form this pipeline. Default: ``False``
- ``input_collections_bias``: List of additional (the ``OCPS`` already adds ``LATISS/raw/all`` as a default) comma-separated input collections for the bias pipetask. The pipetask is called via the ``OCPS`` after enabling it with the ``LATISS`` configuration. Default: ``LATISS/calib``.
- ``input_collections_verify_bias``: Additional comma-separated input collections to pass to the verify (bias) pipetask. Default: ``LATISS/calib``.
- ``input_collections_dark``: Additional comma-separarted input collections to pass to the dark pipetask. Default: ``LATISS/calib``
- ``input_collections_verify_dark``: Additional comma-separated input collections to pass to the verify (dark) pipetask. Default: ``LATISS/calib``
- ``input_collections_flat``: Additional comma-separated input collections to pass to the flat pipetask. Default: ``LATISS/calib``
- ``input_collections_verify_flat``: Additional comma-separated input collections to pass to the verify (flat) pipetask. Default: ``LATISS/calib``
- ``input_collections_defects``: Additional comma-separated input collections to pass to the defects pipetask. Default: ``LATISS/calib``
- ``input_collections_ptc``: Additional comma-separated input collections to pass to the Photon Transfer Curve pipetask. Default: ``LATISS/calib``
- ``calib_collection``: ``CALIBRATION`` collection where the calibrations will be certified into, for example, ``LATISS/calib/u/plazas/YYYYMMMDD.test`` or ``LATISS/calib/daily``. Default: ``LATISS/calib/daily``.
- ``repo``: Butler repository. Default: ``/repo/LATISS``.
- ``n_processes``: Number of processes that the pipetasks will use. Default: ``8``
- ``certify_calib_begin_date``: The beginning date for the validity range of the certified calibration. For example, ``2021-07-15``. Default: ``1950-01-01``
- ``certify_calib_end_date``: The end date for the validity range of the certified calibration. For example, ``2021-07-16``. Default: ``2050-01-01``.
- ``oods_timeout``: Timeout value, in seconds, for the Observatory Operations Data Service (``OODS``). Default: ``120``

An example set of configuration parameters is as follows:

.. code-block:: text

    n_bias: 6
    n_dark: 6
    exp_times_dark: [5, 5, 5, 10, 15, 20]
    n_flat: 14
    exp_times_flat: [0.1, 0.1, 0.35, 0.35, 0.6, 0.6, 0.8, 0.8, 1.0, 1.0, 1.35, 1.35, 1.6, 1.6]
    calib_collection: "LATISS/calib/u/plazas/daily.2021SEP13.test1"
    do_verify: True
    input_collections_verify_bias: "u/czw/DM-28920/calib.20210720,LATISS/calib"
    input_collections_verify_dark: "u/czw/DM-28920/calib.20210720,LATISS/calib"
    input_collections_verify_flat: "u/czw/DM-28920/calib.20210720,LATISS/calib"
    certify_calib_begin_date: "2021-07-15"
    certify_calib_end_date: "2021-07-17"
    script_mode: BIAS_DARK_FLAT
    do_defects: True
    do_ptc: True

Notes
^^^^^

- The ``detectors`` parameters was omitted, therefore, by default, the single LATISS detector will be passed to the LSST Science Pipelines pipetasks. 
- The ``generate_calibrations`` parameters was omitted, and therefore combined calibrations will not be generated from the individual images taken (biases, darks, and flats since ``script_mode`` is ``BIAS_DARK_FLAT``), as its default value is ``False``. Pipetasks that require combined calibrations to run will search for them in their input collections. For example, since ``do_verify`` is ``True``, the bias, dark, and flat verification tasks will look for combined reference calibrations in their input collections, given by the ``input_collections_verify_bias``, ``input_collections_verify_dark``, and ``input_collections_verify_flat`` parameters. Since the collection ``u/czw/DM-28920/calib.20210720`` is located before the standard collection ``LATISS/calib`` in these parameters, the verification tasks will look there first. On the other hand, since ``do_ptc`` is ``True`` and ``input_collections_ptc`` is omitted, the PTC task will look for combined calibrations (e.g., bias, dark) in the standard calibration collection ``LATISS/calib``, which is the default for this parameter.
-  Sometimes running the PTC can take a long time. In order to obtain a quick estimation for the gain (and monitor, for example, its stability with time), the parameter ``do_gain_from_flat_pairs`` can be set to ``True``. In that case, only one pair of flats is required, so the parameter ``exp_times_flat`` could be set to, e.g., ``[1.2, 1.2]``. However, the task will estimate a gain for every flat pair that has been taken (``LOVE`` will report the values per exposure pair per detector per amplifier). For example, if ``exp_times_flat`` is  ``[0.1, 0.1, 0.35, 0.35, 0.6, 0.6, 1, 1.5, 1.7, 2.1, 2.3]``, gains will be estimated from the first three flat pairs.
- See `DMTN-222`_ for a discussion on calibration generation, verification, acceptance, and certfication, including suggested naming conventions for parameters such as ``calib_collection``.

.. _DMTN-222: https://dmtn-222.lsst.io/

Launch the script
-----------------

When the configuration options have been entered and the script is ready to be launched, click on the ``ADD`` button in the lower right of the screen (refer to image above).

Accessing the calibrations
--------------------------

The certified combined calibrations will be available via the collection specified by the **calib_collection** parameter. They could be retrieved from a notebook for manipulation and visualization:

.. code-block:: python
    
    import lsst.daf.butler as dB

    butler = dB.Butler("/repo/LATISS", collections=["LATISS/calib/daily.2021SEP13.test1"])
    detector = (0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8)
    exposure = [bias1ID, bias2ID] # e.g., [2021071500001, 2021071500002]
    
    # For detector "0":
    bias = butler.get('bias', detector=detector[0], exposure=exposure[0], instrument='LATISS')
    dark = butler.get('dark', detector=detector[0], exposure=exposure[0], instrument='LATISS')
    flat = butler.get('flat', detector=detector[0], exposure=exposure[0], instrument='LATISS')
    defects = butler.get('defects', detector=detector[0], exposure=exposure[0], instrument='LATISS')
    ptc = butler.get('ptc', detector=detector[0], exposure=exposure[0], instrument='LATISS')


If ``do_gain_from_flat_pair`` is ``True``, the estimated gains (as well as the measured empirical readout noise from the overscan during Instrument Signature Removal) can be found by requesting the ``cpCovariances`` data structure. In this case, the exposure ID should be one of the two flats used to estimate the gain:

.. code-block:: python

    cpCovs = butler.get('cpCovariances', detector=detector[0], exposure=flat1ID, instrument='LATISS')
    gain_values = cpCov.gain
    noise_values = cpCov.noise

The gain estimated in this way (from single pairs of flats) is an approximation that is likely to be more accurate at lower fluxes. This method has the advantage that it allows to obtain a quick estimate of the gain without having to take multiple flat pairs to construct a full PTC and to fit a model to it.

In addition, the statistics produced by the verification step can be analized by running the Jupyter notebooks in the ``examples`` folder in ``cp_verify``. As it is shown in these notebooks, useful statistics and information about the results of the ``cp_verify`` tests can be retrieved from the butler via (using flat verification as an example):

.. code-block:: python

    runStats = butler.get('verifyFlatStats', instrument='LATISS')
    runDetStats = butler.get('verifyFlatDetStats', instrument='LATISS', detector=0, exposure=flatExposureID)


The images processed by ``cp_verify`` can also be retrieved for visual inspection:

.. code-block:: python

    import lsst.afw.display as afwDisplay
    afwDisplay.setDefaultBackend("matplotlib")

    imProc = butler.get('verifyFlatProc', detector=0, exposure=flatExposureID, instrument='LATISS')
    calibArray = imProc.getImage().getArray()
    # Get simple stats
    q25, q50, q75 = np.percentile(calibArray.flatten(), [25, 50, 75])
    sigma = 0.74 * (q75 - q25)
    display = afwDisplay.Display(dims=(1000, 1000))
    display.scale('asinh', 'zscale')
    display.scale('linear', (q50 - 3.0 * sigma), (q50 + 3.0* sigma), "")
    display.mtv(imProc)


Troubleshooting
===============

    After checking the configuration options and the ``LOVE`` error messages, the file ``/scratch/uws/${jobId}/outs/ocps.log`` will contain additional technical information on which pipetask failed, if any. ``{jobId}`` is returned by the OCPS and can be retrieved from the ``LOVE`` output messages.


.. _Latiss-Master-Calibrations-Procedure-Conditions-Contact-Personnel:

Contact Personnel
=================

This procedure was last modified on |today|.

This procedure was written by |author|.
The following are contributors: |contributors|.
